Dialog 2 way GA (#2089)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/develop/dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md

## Pass information to the dialog box

> Your add-in can send messages from the [host page](dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md#open-a-dialog-box-from-a-host-page) to a dialog box using the [messageChild](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog#messagechild-message-) method of the [Dialog](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog) object.

Reviewer: Consider condensing this to one link, since you really only want to send them to that method description.

```suggestion
Your add-in can send messages from the [host page](dialog-api-in-office-add-ins.md#open-a-dialog-box-from-a-host-page) to a dialog box using [Dialog.messageChild](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog#messagechild-message-).
```

> > [!Note]

Reviewer: Nit: caps for consistency.
```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
```

> > The APIs are supported in only Excel, PowerPoint, and Word. Support for Outlook is coming soon.

Reviewer: Consider clarifying which APIs.
```suggestion
> These dialog APIs are supported in only Excel, PowerPoint, and Word. Support for Outlook is coming soon.
```

> > The APIs are supported in only Excel, PowerPoint, and Word. Support for Outlook is coming soon.

Reviewer: Should we hedge the Outlook support as "in development" instead of "coming soon"? I'm not sure about the connotations of each, but I'm worried about customer comments like "This has been 'coming soon' for X months."

Author: OK

### Use `messageChild()` from the host page

> When you call the Office dialog API to open a dialog box, a [Dialog](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog) object is returned. It should be assigned to a variable, which typically has greater scope than the [displayDialogAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#displaydialogasync-startaddress--callback-)

Reviewer: We're already saying "should", so let's give the rest more conviction.
```suggestion
When you call the Office dialog API to open a dialog box, a [Dialog](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog) object is returned. It should be assigned to a variable that has greater scope than the [displayDialogAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#displaydialogasync-startaddress--callback-)
```

method because the object will be referenced by other methods. The following is an example:

```javascript
var dialog;
Office.context.ui.displayDialogAsync('https://myDomain/myDialog.html',
    function (asyncResult) {
        dialog = asyncResult.value;
        dialog.addEventHandler(Office.EventType.DialogMessageReceived, processMessage);
    }
);

function processMessage(arg) {
    dialog.close();

  // message processing code goes here;

}
```

> This `Dialog` object has a [messageChild](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog#messagechild-message-) method that sends any string, or stringified data, to the dialog box. This raises a `DialogParentMessageReceived` event in the dialog box. Your code should handle this event, as shown in the next section.

Reviewer: Consider changing this parenthetical to say "including stringified data", since it's still a string and this is more of a cool usage tip.
```suggestion
This `Dialog` object has a [messageChild](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog#messagechild-message-) method that sends any string, including stringified data, to the dialog box. This raises a `DialogParentMessageReceived` event in the dialog box. Your code should handle this event, as shown in the next section.
```

> This `Dialog` object has a [messageChild](/javascript/api/office/office.dialog#messagechild-message-) method that sends any string, or stringified data, to the dialog box. This raises a `DialogParentMessageReceived` event in the dialog box. Your code should handle this event, as shown in the next section.

Reviewer: I think we're inconsistent about this, but sometimes we surround enum values with quotation marks ("DialogParentMessageReceived"). I guess that makes more sense in Excel because the Rich API overloads methods that use enums with string literal variants.

Anyway, I'm sure if you have to change this. Just something to be aware of.

> Consider a scenario in which the UI of the dialog should correlate with the currently active worksheet and that worksheet's position relative to the other worksheets. In the following example, `sheetPropertiesChanged` sends Excel worksheet properties to the dialog box. In this case the current worksheet is named "My Sheet" and it is the 2nd sheet in the workbook. The data is encapsulated in an object which is stringified so that it can be passed to `messageChild`.

Reviewer: Some small phrasing suggestions. Feel free to take or leave any or all of them.
```suggestion
Consider a scenario in which the UI of the dialog is related to the currently active worksheet and that worksheet's position relative to the other worksheets. In the following example, `sheetPropertiesChanged` sends Excel worksheet properties to the dialog box. In this case, the current worksheet is named "My Sheet" and it's the second sheet in the workbook. The data is encapsulated in an object and stringified so that it can be passed to `messageChild`.
```

```javascript
function sheetPropertiesChanged() {
    var messageToDialog = JSON.stringify({
                               name: "My Sheet",
                               position: 2
                           });

    dialog.messageChild(messageToDialog);
}
```

### Handle DialogParentMessageReceived in the dialog box

In the dialog box's JavaScript, register a handler for the `DialogParentMessageReceived` event with the [UI.addHandlerAsync](/javascript/api/office/office.ui#addhandlerasync-eventtype--handler--options--callback-) method. This is typically done in the [Office.onReady or Office.initialize

> methods](initialize-add-in.md). The following is an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
methods](initialize-add-in.md), as shown here:
```

```javascript
Office.onReady()
    .then(function() {
        Office.context.ui.addHandlerAsync(
            Office.EventType.DialogParentMessageReceived,
            onMessageFromParent);
    });
```

> Then, define the `onMessageFromParent` handler. The following code continues the example from the preceding section. Note that Office passes an argument to the handler and that the `message` property of argument object contains the string from the host page. In this example, the message is reconverted to an object and jQuery is used to set the top heading of the dialog to match the new worksheet name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, define the `onMessageFromParent` handler. The following code continues the example from the preceding section. Note that Office passes an argument to the handler and that the `message` property of the argument object contains the string from the host page. In this example, the message is reconverted to an object and jQuery is used to set the top heading of the dialog to match the new worksheet name.
```

```javascript
function onMessageFromParent(event) {
    var messageFromParent = JSON.parse(event.message);
    $('h1').text(messageFromParent.name);
}
```

> It is a best practice to verify that your handler is properly registered. You can do this by passing a callback to the `addHandlerAsync` method that runs when the attempt to register the handler completes. Use the handler to log or show an error if the handler was not successfully registered. The following is an example. Note that `reportError` is a function, not defined here, that logs or displays the error.

Reviewer: Consider splitting that second sentence into two so that it's more clear the callback always runs.
```suggestion
It is a best practice to verify that your handler is properly registered. You can do this by passing a callback to the `addHandlerAsync` method. This runs when the attempt to register the handler completes. Use the handler to log or show an error if the handler was not successfully registered. The following is an example. Note that `reportError` is a function, not defined here, that logs or displays the error.
```

```javascript
Office.onReady()
    .then(function() {
        Office.context.ui.addHandlerAsync(
            Office.EventType.DialogParentMessageReceived,
            onMessageFromParent,
            onRegisterMessageComplete);

>     });

Reviewer: I like how the article splits up the different concepts in the code, but I worry that by having an earlier code sample without the register callback best practice, people will miss out on this part. Thoughts?

Author: I added a parenthetical remark before the earlier snippet that says a more robust snippet is coming later.

function onRegisterMessageComplete(asyncResult) {
    if (asyncResult.status !== Office.AsyncResultStatus.Succeeded) {
        reportError(asyncResult.error.message);
    }
}
```

### Conditional messaging from parent page to dialog box

Because you can make multiple `messageChild` calls from the host page, but you have only one handler in the dialog box for the `DialogParentMessageReceived` event, the handler must use conditional logic to distinguish different messages. You can do this in a way that is precisely parallel to how you would structure conditional messaging when the dialog box is sending a message to the host page as described in [Conditional messaging](#conditional-messaging).

> [!NOTE]

> > In some situations, the `messageChild` API, which is a part of the [DialogApi 1.2 requirement set](../reference/requirement-sets/dialog-api-requirement-sets.md),  may not be supported. Some alternative ways for parent to dialog box messaging are described in [Alternative ways of passing messages to a dialog box from its host page](parent-to-dialog.md).

Reviewer: I think this needs to be hyphenated when used as an adjective like this.
```suggestion
> In some situations, the `messageChild` API, which is a part of the [DialogApi 1.2 requirement set](../reference/requirement-sets/dialog-api-requirement-sets.md),  may not be supported. Some alternative ways for parent-to-dialog-box messaging are described in [Alternative ways of passing messages to a dialog box from its host page](parent-to-dialog.md).
```

> > [!Important]

Reviewer: Nit: caps for consistency.
```suggestion
> [!IMPORTANT]
```

SPAs and client-side routing need to be handled with care when you are using the Office dialog API. Please see [Best practices for using the Office dialog API in an SPA](dialog-best-practices.md#best-practices-for-using-the-office-dialog-api-in-an-spa).

### Message dialog from parent when messageChild is not available

> In some situations, the `messageChild` API may not be supported. Some alternative ways for parent to dialog box messaging are described in [Alternative ways of passing messages to a dialog box from its host page](parent-to-dialog.md).

Reviewer: It feels weird to have this advice twice in the same article. Isn't the above note sufficient?
